---
date: 2014-09-15T16:30:22-05:00
title: "Commenting"
sub-title: "I still don't have a good solution"
lede_img: "https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-9gf4njPcjnY/VBdcwEcXBfI/AAAAAAAARcU/pRU0aMSq54o/w1650-no/Relics%2Bin%2BThomaskirche.jpg"
lede-style: "background-size: cover; background-repeat: no-repeat;"
lede_attribution: "Relics in Thomaskirche by <a href='http://blog.patdavid.net'>Pat David</a>"
author: "Pat David"
author_bio: "I write things.  I photograph things.  Sometimes they meet.  <br/>I <a href='http://blog.patdavid.net'>blog</a> about various things. I write <a href='http://blog.patdavid.net/p/getting-around-in-gimp.html'>tutorials</a> too."
collection: blogposts
layout: blog-posts.hbt
---

First things first.
I forgot to actually link to the new [About page](/about "About Pixls.us") in my last post.
So [here it is](/about).
As with all things related to the site, any feedback, comments, or criticisms are welcome!

Speaking of feedback, comments, and criticisms, I wanted to write about it for a moment.

First, I want to thank everyone who has taken the time to contact me and provide me feedback on the site.
You have no idea how valuable it is to both as a motivator, and as a means to know when something is off.
I appreciate and give my full attention to each and every person and idea thrown at me.  Thank you!

<!-- more -->

From the beginning I have been considering how to let everyone interact with the site and posts.
It would be so much easier for folks to leave a comment on a page (or forum) directly.
Particularly if it allows everyone to view the conversation.

## Disqus

One thing I could do relatively easily is just use a third party commenting system, like [Disqus](https://disqus.com/).
They make it *so* easy it almost seems silly **not** to do it.
An account, a few lines of javascript, and done.

This method comes with a price, though.
A price in both user privacy concerns as well as the fact that comments are no longer mine (pixls.us) to manage and archive.
I don't know that I'm willing to pay that price yet just for convenience.

If anything, I may set it up as a temporary solution while I work on something a little more long term.

## Discourse

From what I've seen so far, [Discourse](http://www.discourse.org/) is the long term solution that I would like to get up and running.
It's also "Yet-Another-Thing" I should thank darix on `#darktable` for pointing me to.

The only drawback at the moment is that my hosting provider doesn't have what I need to get it running (relatively easily).
There are a couple of options for hosted solutions that I may go with, but I want to focus on getting the content ready to go for an "official" launch before I get too far down that rabbit hole.

## Conclusion

Yes, I know there's a need for having some sort of commenting system available for everyone to participate!
I'll get one running just as soon as I can.
